
## Git and GitHub
**Git** is a common _version control_ tool used by computer program developers to save code and work on code collaboratively as a team. **Git** is a program run from the command line or **Anaconda Prompt**. **Git** was created by Linus Torvalds, who also created the Linux operating system.
[github.com](https://github.com/) run by the company GitHub is a website and service used by programmers and open source projects to share code and allow contributers to propose changes to existing code.
Both **git** and **github.com** are useful for problemsolvers working in teams.
Before using git and GitHub, it is helpful to understand a couple terms:

 * **git** - a command line program used to track file changes and collaborate on code with others.
 * **repo** - short name for "repository". A repo is a directory and its contents.
 * **local repo** -  a directory and its contents on your computer that git knows about.
 * **remote repo** - a directory and its contents stored in the cloud that git knows about.
Useful git commands are summarized below:

| command | description |
| --- | --- |
| ```git init``` | initialize a new repository |
| ```git remote add origin https://github.com/user/repo.git``` | links a local repo with a remote repo on github.com |
| ```git add .``` | adds all the files and changes to the local git repo |
| ```git commit -m "commit message"``` | commits the changes in the local repo |
| ```git push origin master``` | pushes the changes up to the remote repo on github.com |
| ```git pull origin master``` | pulls the version in the remote repo down to the local repo |
| ```git clone https://github.com/user/repo.git``` | copies a remote repo on github.com to a local directory |


### Cloning a repo
One common task to complete with **git** is to clone a repo from github.com and save it locally. This means saving all the files stored in a remote repo on your local computer. Cloning a repo is accomplished with:

```text
$ git clone https://github.com/user/repo.git
```

This command will copy the repo named ```repo``` from the user ```user```. To clone the repo for this book, use:

```text
$ git clone https:github.com/ProfessorKazarinoff/Problem-Solving-with-Python.git
```

### Creating and synching a remote repo on github.com with a local repo
Another common task to complete with **git** is to synch a remote repo on github.com with a local repo on your local computer. This is useful for one person if they want to keep the files in a particular project synched accross multiple computers. Synched remote and local repos are also useful for a group of problem solvers working on the same project. Each team member has access to the same remote repo on github.com and each team member has the same local repo on all of their computers.

#### Create a the remote repo on GitHub

First, go to github.com and create a new account. Log on and create a new repo. It is a good idea to include a license and a .gitignore file. For a Python project, the .gitignore file for Python is a good start. Two common licenses for open source projects you are willing to share with others is _GNU General Public License v3.0_ and the _MIT License_.

#### Make a new local repo and link it to the remote repo on GitHub

Second, create a local directory and ```cd``` into it. Initialize a git repo locally in that directory. Then synch the local folder with the remote repo on github.com.

```text
$ mkdir newproject
$ cd newproject
$ git init
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/user/repo.git
$ git pull origin master
```

#### Add, commit and push any changes

Third, work on the project locally. For example, you could edit one of the files or create a new file.

Finally, save your work and commit the changes you made with git. Push those changes up to the remote repo on github.com

```text
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "commit message"
$ git push origin master
```

#### Pull the most recent version before each work session

If using git and GitHub, remember to pull the most recent version of the repo down from GitHub before making any changes locally. If changes are made locally before the version of the repo on GitHub is synched, the local and remote repos will be out of synch.

```text
$ git pull origin master
```

After local changes are made, save them and push to GitHub

```text
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "commit message"
$ git push orign master
```
 

