
## Virtual Environments
Using __virtual environments__ is good standard of practice in Python. A virtual environment is an isolated installation of Python with associated packages. 
### Create a virtual environment with the Anaconda Prompt

To create the new virtual environment, open the **Anaconda Prompt** and issue the command:

```text
> conda create --name env_name python=3.7
```

The ```conda create``` command builds the new virtual environment. The ```--name env_name``` flag gives our new virtual environment the name ```env_name```.  Including ```python=3.6``` ensures the virtual environment has a current version of Python. 

The following output or something similar will result:

```text
The following NEW packages will be INSTALLED:

    certifi:        2016.2.28-py36_0
    pip:            9.0.1-py36_1
    python:         3.7.1-0
    setuptools:     36.4.0-py36_0
    vs2015_runtime: 14.0.25420-0
    wheel:          0.29.0-py36_0
    wincertstore:   0.2-py36_0

Proceed ([y]/n)? y
```

Type ```y``` to confirm and create the new virtual environment. 
### Activate the virtual environment

To use the new virtual environment ```env_name```, it first needs to be activated:

```text
> conda activate env_name
```

The virtual environment is active when you see ```(env_name)``` in parenthesis at the start of the prompt:

```text
(env_name) > 
```

### Install packages in the virtual environment

When a new virtual environment is created, no packages will be installed. If you have the Anaconda distribution of Python, the ```base``` environment contains all 200+ packages that come with Anaconda. But a fresh new virtual environment will just have the version of Python installed, no other packages.

To install a package into the virtual environment, first make sure the environment is active (```(env_name)``` before the prompt). Package installation is accomplished with the ```conda install``` command followed by the package name. To install matplotlib into the virtual environment type:

```text
(env_name) > conda install matplotlib
```

Multiple packages can be installed with the same command. To install both **numpy** and **jupyter** use:

```text
(env_name) > conda install numpy jupyter
```

### Decative the virtual environment

To deactivate an active environment, use:

```text
(env_name) > conda deactivate
>
```

When the virtual environment is deactivated, the prompt looks normal ```>```, with no environment name in parenthesis before it.
### List your virtual environments

View a list of your virtual environments using the command ```conda info --envs``` or ```conda env list```.

```text
> conda activate env_name
(env_name) > conda info --envs

# conda environments:
#
matplotlib               /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/matplotlib
env_name               * /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/env_name
root                     /home/tribilium/anaconda3
```

Notice the ``` * ``` asterisk on the line with ```env_name```. The virtual environment with the ``` * ``` is currently active. 

To exit the virtual environment, use the command ``` conda deactivate```. 

```
(env_name) > conda deactive
```

If you run ```conda env list``` again, there is no ```*``` in front of ```env_name```. That's because the ```env_name``` virtual environment is no longer active.

```text
> conda env list

# conda environments:
#
matplotlib               /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/matplotlib
webscrape                /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/pelican
root                  *  /home/tribilium/anaconda3
```
 

