
## Problem Solving with Python Book Construction
### Jupyter Notebooks
This book was constructed using **jupyter notebooks** saved on github.com. The github repo for the books can be found at:
    
[https://github.com/ProfessorKazarinoff/Problem-Solving-with-Python](https://github.com/ProfessorKazarinoff/Problem-Solving-with-Python)
The directory structure of the github repo contains all the **jupyter notebooks** used the write the book. The repo also contains a set of conversion tools which assist with the conversion of the book from **jupyter notebooks** to a website, .pdf and hard copy.
```
Problem-Solving-with-Python/
|-- conversion_tools/
|-- notebooks/
|-- LICENSE
|-- notebooks/
|-- pdf/
|-- README.md
|-- website/
```
The notebooks directory contains a directory for each chapter of the book:
```
notebooks/
|-- 00-Preface/
|-- 01-Orientation/
|-- 02-The-Python-REPL/
|-- 03-Data-Types-and-Variables/
|-- 04-Jupyter-Notebooks/
|-- 05-Functions-and-Modules/
|-- 06-Plotting-with-Matplotlib/
|-- 07-If-Else-Try-Except/
|-- 08-Loops/
|-- 09-Linear-Algebra/
|-- 10-Symbolic-Math/
|-- 11-Python-and-External-Hardware/
|-- 12-MicroPython/
|-- 99-Appendix/
|-- figures/
`-- TOC.ipynb
```
Within each chapter directory, there is a **jupyter notebook** for each section, and an images directory for any images used in the markdown sections of the notebooks.

```
01-Orientation/
|-- 01.00-Welcome.ipynb
|-- 01.01-Why-Python.ipynb
|-- 01.02-Installing-Python.ipynb
|-- 01.03-Installing-Anaconda.ipynb
|-- 01.04-Installing-Anaconda-on-OSX.ipynb
|-- 01.05-Summary.ipynb
|-- 01.06-Review-Questions.ipynb
`-- images/
```
### Website
The website for the book was constructed using **mkdocs** and the **Material for MkDocs** theme. Jupyter noteboks were exported to .html files with markdown cells unformatted. 
### Hardcopy
The hard copy of the book was constructed using **LateX**, **nbconvert** and a set of custom scripts and templates. One conversion script combined all of the notebooks into one BIG notebook.  This BIG notebook was then converted into **LaTeX** using a custom template. Outside of the Python ecosystem, a separate installation of TeXworks was used to compile the LaTeX to .pdf.
 

