
## Numeric Data Types
Python has many useful built in data types. Python variables can store different types of data. A variable's data type is created dynamically, without the need to specifically define a data type when the variable is created. It's useful for problem solvers to understand a couple of Python's core data types in order to write well-constructed code. Below is a discussion of a few different data types in Python.
### Integers

Integers are one of the Python data types. An integer is a whole number, negative, positive or zero. In Python, integer variables are defined by simply assigning a whole number to a variable. Python's ```type()``` function can be used to determine the data type of a variable.

```python
>>> a = 5
>>> type(a)
<class 'int'>
>>> b = -2
>>> type(b)
<class 'int'>
>>> z = 0
>>> type(z)
<class 'int'>
```
### Floating Point Numbers

Floating point numbers or _floats_ are another Python data type. Floats are decimals, positive, negative and zero. Floats can also be numbers in scientific notation which contain exponents. Both a lower case ```e``` or an upper case ```E``` work to define floats in scientific notation. In Python, a float can be defined using a decimal point ```.``` when a variable is assigned.

```python
>>> c = 6.2
>>> type(c)
<class 'float'>
>>> d = -0.03
>>> type(d)
<class 'float'>
>>> Na = 6.02e23
>>> Na
6.02e+23
>>> type(Na)
<class 'float'>
```

To define a variable is a float instead of an integer, even if it is assigned a whole number, a trailing decimal point ```.``` is used. Note the difference when a decimal point ```.``` comes after a whole number:

```python
>>> g = 5
>>> type(g)
<class 'int'>
>>> g = 5.
>>> type(g)
<class 'float'>
```
#### Complex numbers

Another useful data type for problem solvers are complex numbers. A complex number is defined in Python using a real component ```+``` an imaginary component```j```. The letter ```j``` must be used in the imaginary component. Using the letter ```i``` will return an error. Note how imaginary numbers can be added to integers and floats.

```python
>>> comp = 4 + 2j
>>> type(comp)
<class 'complex'>

>>> comp2 = 4 + 2i
              ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
```
<br>

```python
>>> intgr = 3
>>> type(intgr)
<class 'int'>

>>> comp_sum = comp + intgr
>>> print(comp_sum)
(7+2j)

>>> flt = 2.1
>>> comp_sum = comp + flt
>>> print(comp_sum)
(6.1+2j)
```
 

