
## SymPy
SymPy [http://www.sympy.org](http://www.sympy.org) is a Python library for _symbolic math_.  

In symbolic math, symbols are used to represent mathematical expressions. An example symbolic math expression is below. 
$$ x^{2} + y^{2} = z $$
The expression contains the symbols $x$, $y$, and $z$.
If we define a second symbolic math expression:
$$ x = a + b $$
then we can substitue in $a + b$ for $x$.
The result is the expression:
$$ (a + b)^{2} + y^{2} = z $$

$$ a^{2} + 2ab + b^{2} + y^{2} = z $$
If solve for $y$ in terms of $a$,$b$ and $z$, would result in:
    
$$ y = \sqrt{z - a^{2} - 2ab - b^{2}} $$

In the symbolic math substitution above, symbolic math variables were rearranged, grouped and inserted. None of the variables were equal to a specific number, like 5 or 0.001, but you can still solve for one variable in terms on the others.
If there are numerical values for $z$, $a$ and $b$, we can use Python to calculate the value of $y$. But if we don't have numerical values for $z$, $a$ and $b$ Python can also be used to rearrange terms and solve for one variable in terms of the other. Working with mathematical symbols in a programmatic way instead of working with numerical values in a programmatic way is call symbolic math.
To work with symbolic math, the SymPy library needs to be installed. Using the Anaconda Prompt this can be accomplished with the command:

```
> conda install sympy
```
SymPy is included with the Anaconda distribution of Python, so if you have the full Anaconda distribution, you will be notified that the SymPy library is already installed.
 

