
## Why Python?
You might be wondering "Why should an engineer learn Python?" There are other programming languages in the engineering world such as MATLAB, LabView, C++ and Java. What makes Python useful for engineers?
### Python is a powerful programming language

Python defines the types of objects you build into your code. Unlike some other languages such as C, you do not need to declare the object type. The object type is also mutable, you can change the type of object easily and on the fly. There is a wide array of object types built into Python. Objects can change in size. Python objects can also contain mixed data types. Strings and floating point numbers can be part of the same list.

Python has an extensive standard library. A huge number of object types, functions and methods are available for use without importing any external modules. These include math functions, list methods, calls to a computers system. There is a lot that can be done with the standard library. The first couple chapters of this book will just use the standard library. It can do a lot.

Python has over 100,000 external packages available for download and use. They are easy to install off of the python package index, commonly called PyPI ("pie pee eye"). There is a python package for just about everything. There are packages which can help you: interact with the web, make complex computations, do unit conversions, plot data, work with .csv, .xls, and .pdf files, manipulate images and video, read data from sensors and test equipment, train machine learning algorithms, design web apps, work with GIS data, work with astronautical data, and many more added every day. In this book we will use some of the more useful Python packages for engineers such as numpy, matplotlib, pandas, and scipy.
### Python is easy to learn and use

Engineers solve the world's problems in teams. One way Python helps solve these problems faster than other programming languages is that it is easy to learn and use. Python programs tends to be shorter and quicker to write than a program that does a similar function in other languages. In the rapid design, prototype, test, iterate cycle programming solutions can be spun up quickly. Python is also an easy language for fellow engineers on your team to learn. It is also quite human readable. While programmers can become preoccupied with a programs run time, it is development time that takes the longest.

#### Python is transportable
Python can be installed and run on each of the three major operating systems: Windows, Mac and Linux. On Mac and Linux Python comes installed out of the box. Just open up a terminal in on a Mac OSX or Linux machine and type \texttt{python}. That's it, you are now using Python. On Windows I recommend downloading and using the Ananaconda distribution. The Anaconda distrobution is free and can be installed on all three major operating systems. The same programming environment can be replecated accross the three different opperating systems.

#### Python is free
MATLAB and LabView cost students to use and cost companies and colleges even more. Python is free to download and use. It is also open source and free to modify, contribute to, and propose improvements. All of the packages available for download on the Python Package Index, PyPI (pronouced pie-pee-eye) are free to download and install. Many more packages, scripts and utilities can be found in open source repos on github and bitbucket. 

#### Python is growing
Python is growing in popularity. Python is particularly growing in the data sciences and in use with GIS systems, physical modeling, machine learning and computer vision. These are growing team problem solving areas for engineers.  
### Python has extensive standard library of modules and a vast array of external modules
#### The Python Standard Library

The Python Standard Library includes:
    
math, statistics, os, urllib, table for what they are used for. More can be found on Read-the-docs
    
#### External Modules available on PyPI

There are over 100,000 external modules available for Python on PyPI. Ones useful for engineers include

**numpy**, **matplotlib** and **jupyter** table for what they are used for

installing Python modules can be done on the command line or at the Anaconda Prompt using;

```
$ pip install module_name
```

where ```module_name``` is the name of the module you want to install.
 

